I've been teaching English teaching
English at the second language in Asia
has never been my main job has never
been my main passion it's not what I
studied in university but it is
something I've done in between other
jobs and some that have done so that I
could study languages history politics
etc in several different countries here
at asia currently I'm living in China
but I'm writing the edge of Southeast
Asia fascinating part of you nan right
by the border with Myanmar working
primarily with university students also
of experience with kids basically all
age levels of experience teaching adults
in the workplace to blah blah blah what
do I have to say in this video what
strikes me now in getting back into
teaching English after several years
pauses several years in which i haven't
taught English the second limb Joel but
during those years I have given lectures
in university settings and academic
settings and conferences and given
lectures to university students in
different situations and have been
lecturing here on YouTube in a sense you
know I'd say the most striking thing to
me getting back into it after several
years is the difference in your
perception of time I think one of the
skills you really need is to perceive
time in a very different way whether
you're teaching in 40 minute segments or
one hour blocks whatever the setup is
where you really feel the passage of
time while you're being engaged with the
students while you're writing on the
chalkboard where you're aware of how
time is passing both to use it
efficiently and in offense in a sense
you know work the crowd keep the
engagement with the audience going and
you know it is one of the real
difference between people some people
can do that naturally some people can do
it as a learned behavior and some people
never can learn it you know I think some
people can never quite pick up the knack
of having a sense of how time passes
moment to moment that way so that really
struck me just now getting back into the
classroom after so many years is it oh
yeah I have to fit back into this very
different way of perceiving time and
every moment counts you know
I was a student learning German in
Germany when I was paying to take
language classes in Germany um I
remember another student complained to
me that one of the teachers who had just
come back after many years in
administration so he had lost to a knack
that he would simply stand there
thinking for a few moments at a time but
in between shifting between topics
shifting between different rules of
grammar who's trying to explain whatever
it was but she said that alone made it
absolutely intolerable she said you
could sit there with a stopwatch and
time how many minutes he was wasting so
you know you have to be engaging the
students constantly you have to be aware
of how time is passing you have to be
using their time in a way that's
meaningful and of course you know when
you're coming up to the last ten minutes
you got to wrap up the topic or you
gotta wrap up the lesson you deliver
that in a way that's meaningful now with
the university students you know I do
explain my methodology so to speak so
just go to comment a live chat thing
it's an art for sure I don't know man
like you know it did different strokes
for different folks different people of
different natural strengths for me I do
have a kind of natural theatricality
that I exploit in YouTube videos back
when I was a religious figure I used to
be a Buddhist I could stand up in a room
full of Buddhist monks and give a
lecture on philosophy with no script you
know I talk a good game and I've been
like that for my whole adult life you
know not at age fourteen obviously to
some extent it's nurture to some extent
its nature to some stats it's hard
experience but you know it's not not I'm
it's fine it's totally good comment it's
an art for sure its real I mean it's not
an art it's education right teaching is
not stand up comedy and I mean what
you're only leaning on and you see the
limits of it is simply the sincere
interest to your students in every
classroom you walk into if you got 40
students you're going to feel right away
which students are really motivated to
learn and which ones aren't and you're
never going to change that there's an
old phrase in Latin villain on dis
couture I can teach you English but I
can't teach you to want to learn English
I can't teach you to want it
the will the one thing that's the part I
can't I can't teach you you know so you
come into a room and you have 40
students and they're all at different
levels of ability they're all different
levels of inspiration or different
levels of motivation when they come into
the room and when they leave the room
they're going to be even more unequal
education does not create equality it
exacerbates inequality the most talented
students are going to advance more or
the most highly motivated students
whatever it may be and others are just
going to get further further behind and
you get to see that happen you don't you
see that happened over months or years
you can see it in one day you can see it
in 12 our university lecture I can see
the students that are making progress in
the two hours and the students who
aren't I'm not perfect but we're saying
you do see striking examples of that
even within your first class you know I
said to my students at the university
level this year I said to them openly I
said to specially in both English and
Chinese i'll come back to that issue
some of you will just want to find a job
in a hotel and that's fine if you want
to work in a hotel you use just a few
words of English again and again your
English doesn't have to be terribly
advanced doesn't have to be terribly
in-depth every day at the hotel people
ask you where's the bathroom people say
to you I need a taxi there were just a
few questions you get every day at the
hotel in English again and again and
that's it that's fine i said but some of
you want to become school teachers now
actually the vast majority of my
students wanted to come school teachers
that's the particular program they're
enrolled in and some of you want to
become translators and some of you want
to fly to America and get a job in
America if you want to do that then
suddenly the level of effort expected
you is way higher your level of
commitment the amount of work yet to put
in this class is much much more and I
said to them you know if you're not
motivated to do that that's okay i am
not going to be angry at you i'm not
going to punish you it's your choice I
respect
your choice I respect your decision to
work hard to try to reach the level or
to not work hard you can still learn
from this class you can still benefit
from this class relaxing and taking it
easy not everyone is going to become a
professional translator not everyone is
going to become you know an English
teacher themselves or fight over there I
I really do appreciate that many of you
are going to choose career paths where
you never use English again right so I
set out the the methodology for the
course and I really let them know this
is the behavior I accept positively I
accept there's a you know there's a
range or the students in effect when I'm
saying this is not have a say but what
I'm saying in effect is I accept that
some of you want to sit at the back of
the class and not work that hurt and
some of you want to sit at the front of
the class and devote your full attention
I respect that and I told them what I
don't respect I don't respect you
playing video games in class I don't
respect you sending text messages in
class I don't respect you using a phone
or computer at all and I said if you
want to do that don't come to class if
you're sick or tired you have a cold you
broke up with your boyfriend you're sad
okay don't come but if you come here and
they all sounded cute not a single one
of my students this year was offended
not a single one was angry or defensive
I got out this this great prop I have
and it tell them it's a cell phone
prison to sort of Shoetique device I
said if you use your cell phone in class
no I'm going to take your cell phone
away from you and I'm going to put it in
the pockets of this cell phone prison
you know you get you get your phone back
at the end of class you know if the only
you can't use your cell phone for next
45 minutes or something it's not that
big a deal but you know I'm gonna take
your cell phone to listen you so again
this is how I start at the university
level this advice is only going to be
useful for a very small numbers telling
you just tell you know a troll the job
is only rewarding if you are yourself
learning the students first language
I've got to say that's crucial when I
was in Cambodia
I spoke Cambodian very poorly but even
if you're just using little phrases if
you're just using the word noun verb
adjective in Cambodia in there their
first one was in the students first
language then you're practicing that
every day even if you're just using if
you're telling them no no say it to me
in a complete sentence no no say it to
me in English you're saying that in
Cambodian you know or tie or lotion or
Chinese you know even if it's just the
the clarification phrases and this kind
of thing that you're you're using their
their language for that adds up to a lot
of hours of practicing the target
language and actually when i'm teaching
english i use a lot of chinese now
currently living in China when I lived
in Laos I used a lot of lotion when I
was when I was teaching English too so
that is inherently very rewarding and I
can't understand the guys who do this
job without learning or studying the
host language people say host language
and target language if if you don't it
is really I think it really just takes
the soul out of the job you know what I
mean and again I think that's you know
maybe it's a matter of character or what
have you there are a lot of suspicious
things with the people who choose to
become English teachers in Asia every
other category of the education industry
is dominated by females right and yet
mysteriously here in China the vast
majority of the English teachers are
male why is that is it just that women
are risk averse that they're afraid to
come out and live here in the rough
hinterlands of China I doubt it I think
a lot of the men because I've met them
talk to them look in their eyes a lot of
them are here for batteries and i don't
mean money you know alcohol sex maybe
gambling maybe prostitution
sadly yes again there's almost nobody
thought a bit about money because the
money isn't enough to meet you it's just
not I mean you're better off working in
a donut store that are up working in
Starbucks or McDonald's back in Canada
United States doesn't make sense do it
for the money right so if you are not
motivated by something like the study of
language history politics something if
you are not yourself a student as well
as being a teacher then it's absolutely
it's absolutely not worth doing I don't
know and again so many these things come
down to irreducible elements of
personality so I have had the experience
over the years you know where you really
don't have enough time for class prep
where for some for some reason that day
you're busy or you're sick you've got to
drive your girlfriend to the hospital or
something you know something happens
where you really don't have time to prep
and then you go in and you do your class
with only 15 minutes of prep for
something and you know for me I've never
had the experience of wishing that I'd
done more prep you know sometimes for me
this is just for my personality that
those experiences are more thrilling
okay I gotta improv like okay I just got
15 minutes to think what am I going to
talk about it i'm going to talk about
crocodiles i'm gonna talk about how in
florida it's dangerous to go swimming
with crocodiles you know that sorry i
just made up that up now that could be a
great lesson let's engage the whole
class what do you do let's have a look
of a bunch of discussions english do an
essay assignment what do you do if
you're attacked by a crocodile you know
come up with with something random it's
it's really strange like the less
preparation you do for me from my
personality that the more rewarding the
job feels but they're like right now I
do improvised lectures on YouTube all
the time that's that's not personality
type and if you do more preparation it's
definitely true i mean i think if you
over prepare then you can set yourself
up for disappointment when the students
don't get it when they don't react well
when they're not interested and then how
are you going to feel if you put three
hours into preparing a one hour lesson
and the students there just for whatever
reason ignorance indolence for whatever
reason they're not falling than
uninterested what then right now of
course some people their solution is to
prep spend six hours preparing multiple
lessons so the students don't like it
during the lesson they can switch and
students don't the students can't do it
sorry but not maybe they're just not
capable of participating in your lesson
as you uh as you set it out um but you
know again so so speaking about both the
university level and and children are
younger than university level I mean I
think the greatest gift your employer
can give you is accurate information on
the students interests right so I was
invited to take a job which I'm not
going to take one of you guys can take
the job by the way if any of you guys
want to move here that was I should
recruit I should start recruiting
employees by my patreon subscribers
those it great start interviewing you
guys see if you want to want to move in
next door to me here work in my town in
China but you know they they invited me
to take up a job just teaching medical
students now a job is very very hard
university level students studying
medicine so some to become doctors
sending some nurses some for other
specialized professions within hospitals
right but I know then there are many
many ways in which that job is hard I
think they wanted me to teach a teen
classes a week so 18 university lectures
a week right tough but the gifts they
give you is that they tell you what the
students are interested in they tell you
that they're all medical students so
already for me the curriculum writes
itself I can sit down no internet access
no no books no text I don't need to text
books if I know that these 40 students
in the classroom that every single one
of them has to deal with Latin
vocabulary in English pharmacopoeia
names of technical tools and instruments
in the hospital what's the difference
between a scalpel and a suture you know
stitches amazing words about hygiene
some plastic gloves even the fact that
they're there in a hospital setting I
could use you know some crappy soap
operas set in the hospital I could play
video clips from soap operas or movies
there's so many American movies that are
said in the hospital already just that
one word hospital all of these all of
these all these students having that
much in common that's already such a
gift for an educator right now that's
some of you might think that's the
hardest kind of job teaching university
level and those would be students by the
way who are not interested in learning
English those would be Chinese students
were their real interest is in becoming
a medical doctor and they're being
forced to learn English as a job
requirement so that that would be tough
that's not like getting a bunch of
students who really want to become
English Lit majors or want to become
translators they would not be motivated
in the way other students would but the
hardest thing is of course by contrast
if you're really talking about children
children at any age like 13 year old
children what are their interests what
did they have in common it's not like
they're going to be all committed to
learning medicine right it's not even
that they'll be interested in English
sadly they may be there because their
parents forcibly show that's tough to be
honest with you I mean in many many ways
teaching children is easier the teaching
adults are is easier than teaching
University students but the greatest
gift your employer can give you it's
accurate information about your students
motivations and almost by definition
with children you can never know that
[Music]